# Setting up WordPress for this theme

## Set up the Home Page and FrontPage Template Pages

### Leading title

- To display 'Who We Are', you need to add 'Who We Are' to the excerpt field of the Home Page.

### Random Home Hero Images (ACF setup)

- To get the random image for the home hero, you have to create a field group with ACF (e.g. "Single Post Custom Fields").
  The field Name should be called home_hero, Field Type > Choice > True/False.

### Featured Stories for Home Page (ACF setup)

- The theme displays the three latest featured stories on the Home Page. To set up, under the field group "Single Post Custom Fields" create a field called home_featured, Field Type > Choice > True/False.

- To set up the portrait image of the featured story, create a custom field "featured_story_image", of Field Type Image. Make sure the return format is "Image Array".

### Featured Stories of Page (ACF setup)

- The theme displays the three latest featured stories on each page using the Frontpage template. To set up, under the field group "Single Post Custom Fields" create a field called page_featured, Field Type > Choice > True/False.

### Travel Diaries on Home Page

- Only displays post under the category 'destinations'

## Set up Categories

- Each category is a page
- To use the frontpage layout for the category page, make sure 'Has Featured Stories' is checked
- To show a lead (e.g. 'Land of Fire and Ice' for the Iceland category), add it in the 'Category Lead' field
  - If there is no lead text, the description will not be shown

### What if there are not enough posts?

- FrontPage template only displays the square tiles section if there are more than three posts with the matching tag.
- If there are less than three posts, you need to select 'page_featured' for the one, two or three posts that match the tag. If no featured posts are selected, and there are less than three posts matching the page, no posts will be displayed.

### Regular Page vs Country Page

- Select the custom field 'Regular Page' when not creating country pages. (e.g. Promo Clips)
- This will remove 'Stories From' as we don't want to read 'Featured Stories From Promo Clips'

## Image Sizes

In total, this theme needs 5 different image sizes.

You need to configure 3 of these in Settings > Media

- Thumbnail: 150 \* 150 (default)
- Medium: 0
- Large Size: 1024 \* 1024 (pre-existing default)

The other two sizes are created automatically.

- 540px is created by the theme (found in functions.php) 'Width-S 540'
- 350px by 350px Medium Square (used for related posts carousel and post tiles)
- 769px is an autogenerated WordPress dimension 'Medium Large'

Hero images need to be uploaded at 2880 x 1800
Featured tiles are never displayed larger than 318 \* 461,

## Set Up Archive Pages (Category and Tags)

The theme utilises custom images for category pages, e.g. destinations/europe/iceland or tag pages e.g. tag/iceland
To set up the custom images, we need to add an [ACF for an image in the category page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/adding-fields-taxonomy-term/).

- Use ACF for the Hero Images Custom Fields > Field Groups > Add New 'Taxonomy Custom Field'
- Add Field > Image
- Return format > Image ID

## Set up the Parent Page (e.g. Destinations)

- Select Page Grid as template
- Add as parent to children (e.g. Destination is parent page to 'Iceland', 'Kenya' etc.)

## Flex Column Shortcodes

- The theme uses the custom plugin "Columned Images for Madhouse Heaven". Remember to upload the latest version.
- Usage: [flex_col_images num_col=3][/flex_col_images]
- Takes three or four columns

## Contact Form

- Uses Contact Form 7 plugin
- It is styled with the class '.wpcf7'
